see the first thing I do is start
streaming
YouTube
you
okay
hello and welcome to the ipfs weekly
call this is the place where you get a
chance to see exciting projects that are
being built in the ipfs ecosystem so we
don't we don't have any announcements
for today so we're going to get straight
into the presentation by bogdan pabich
thank you Bogdan for agreeing to present
today
Bogdan is a software engineer and he's
also co-founder of tenderly tenderly
does aetherium smart contract monitoring
it does stack traces analytics debugger
it's definitely something that was
needed in the space I'm so happy that
tenderly exists
tymberlee uses IP FS so it'll be really
interesting for Bogdan to ship to tell
us exactly how they're using IP FS so
without further ado Bogdan Hey hi
everyone is he Bogdan before building
stuff for web 3 I worked at GoDaddy and
it started up got acquired by it so
there I was also building developer
tools so web 3 developer tools were kind
of natural fit for me and people that
love GoDaddy and started building stuff
forward 3 so right now I'm working in
Thunder Lee which is in the etherium
smart went to the contract monitoring
platform but it's interesting to see how
we got to the idea so before doing this
we actually built a decentralized to the
public procurement platform so public
procurement is if the government wants
to buy for example 100 chairs they have
to make like a huge auction and people
apply etc so there we use ITSs in cerium
to make this totally decentralized
but the problem with that was that's
well developing all of that there was a
lot of friction on our site especially
with aetherium so while talking to
government people first we found out
that we don't know how to talk to
government people so that was one of the
problems that we couldn't solve but the
problem that we did manage to solve
internally was actually building
development tools and we decided to
through having much more fun building
that and actually solving the public
procurement problems like corruption
like that so we started building
tenderly so let's get started
so just to share my screen give me a sec
nice care buttons on the bottom it's
green yes sir Icona system so when I
click this do you still see the screen
we can see it good okay so as you
already mentioned so tenderly just give
me a sec I actually don't see my mouse
here just like I'm sorry okay here we go
so tenderly as I said is the first e3
employer contracts monitoring platform
that the bars do with real-time EVM
little insights for every transaction of
the network now what does this actually
mean it means that we have tenderly on
one side which we're really running full
archive notes and then we can actually
listen to every transaction that's
happening with the Syrian Network then
we think every one of these transactions
and we analyze them and so far we are
analyzing everything but we actually
surface data only about failed
transactions so if a transaction failed
centrally catches the transaction itself
it analyzes it and uses the source code
of the smart contract itself to give you
a useful Factory and then we also have
this as a CLI version so if you're doing
local development there's usually stuff
like invalid opcode or require that
fails or something else and you don't
know where it's actually failed and
coming from traditional languages having
the normal sectors is a must so we built
up factories you're more or less so with
that trait on the platform side of
things we can alert you can shoot the
web hooks and your slack message do
something automatically and stuff like
that and so basically I'm not going to
go into too many details about this on
this specific link you can actually see
one of the co-founders speaking of how
we build the tracer itself which is
totally open-source and he goes into
great detail how you can max elyda T
byte code from from the byte code itself
to a specific line of code so we did
this with a couple of stops so we're
using a custom EDM implementation idiom
is the cerium built virtual machine so
we're running full RM notes for both the
main it's intestine and it's interesting
that the set and maintenance are have
noticed two terabytes of data actually
so we have to start at somewhere so we
have a custom version of CBM which is
constantly analyzing all the
transactions and eventually mining them
and then we have a this whole huge
custom data processing pipeline which is
a combination
of Google cloud platform in kubernetes
on top and Asia for running the nodes
themselves and we also use IP FS to
start to store user contract so you can
make sure you will see you can either
import contracts from either scan and
then we're using the data they have but
if you if you upload it to us we
actually use IPS as we're storing the
data in Eclipse the way so you can
generate this person if you have any
question about this but better than
telling you all of this let me show you
actually how it works so here is how a
failed transaction when theorem mix
right now so here you cannot know
actually where a transaction failed and
the contract itself is fairly simple and
we still cannot know where it's actually
failed and we'll see what this contract
actually does it how it uses ID FS but
here we cannot see any information
that's useful even if they go to Paris
and trace for example we can see that it
just got reverted and there's nothing
actually useful and we will see how that
really can actually help with that so to
build this and I'm gonna actually do a
quick build here to show cases how this
works we're gonna build a decentralized
password manager with aetherium and IDPs
s so what we're gonna make is the smart
contract a really simple one which is
going to store an IPSS hash for us which
is a really common design pattern for
ECM development and then we're going to
use the IRS the encryption to stall
everything in an encrypted way on IDF s
so to show you how this actually works
just give me a sec so here we have a
simple decentralized application and
here I can enter an account that's a
cool calm and you can add the username
and a super secure password one two
three one three and here I have stored
my password but this isn't useful if
it's on my computer so what I'm going to
do is I'm going to say update master
file and again because we know security
is a must I'm going to do one two three
one two three again here and do this
once more so I'm going to get a pop-up
format the mask here just give it a sec
I'm going to confirm the
in action itself and here we got the
transaction hash so if we go to either
scan just great to be free to finish
actually give it a couple of seconds
this is calling so it should there so
you got mine here we can see at the
actual IP SS cache storing this
transaction and if we go to the contract
itself we can see that the transaction
was mine and we historian is here now
how we actually build this and how did
this actually work and actually another
thing so if I ever load this up or that
using I DNS for example we should
actually do load it up I can say load
Master File after the super secure
password that we use and it's actually
getting the query the blotching for the
ipfs hash pull down the back binary data
decrypt it and show me the information
that we entered so you can see it 1 2 3
1 3 so this is how we can use the
theorem in IVFs to store data because
when a theorem is too pricey to search
data and it's really inefficient and
that's where ideas that shine to be a
good data storage so let's see what
actually happened in the background for
the demo that I showcase so we have a
JSON document that we used an encryption
key which was the master class master
password a enter and we got some
gibberish which is binary data encrypted
binary data then we take the data
submitted to ipfs and we head back the
multi hash that ipfs gives back and then
we take the multi hash send it to
metamath to sign our transaction and
send the transaction to the Syrian
Network so the payload itself that it
sent looks like this which is fairly
simple where you have like a website a
username and password and the encryption
itself is really easy and I thing that I
love about
ipfs that you can use like really simple
stuff to make great abstractions to do
complex stuff in a simple way so what we
do here is we've run for a master
password we use cryptic ojs library
which is really easy to use to generous
and our generates an RSA key pair we
strain it by the bachelors that we have
we encrypt everything and we just send
it to IDF s and this is so easy and we
got the hash back so now we can actually
see the smart contract itself
we saw so we have something called
password manager which has the password
owner which is the address of some of
the person that deployed the smart
contract so that's where we have math
and standard then we have a really
really simple function called send hash
which uses which just gets a string and
here we assert that the message sender
is actually the password owner of the
password manager and this is actually
where the first transaction failed but
we will see how generally I can actually
map this to this at the contract and
then if the yesterd passes we can store
the I BFF cash that we send send there
and also we have a simple view function
which is more or less like the utility
function where we just returned the ipfs
cash that the classroom manager is
holding so again a couple of lines of
code and we can use the theorem and I
guess that's star stuff which is really
cool so submitted a transaction itself
we need a small set up so usually I'm
coming cerium we have something called
an ABI which is an application binary
interface when we have an address of the
contract which is for this conjugate I'm
Demming is this one and then we have an
ABI which is literally like an API that
you can use to interact with your smart
contracts so we build up the web 3
provider we get the cerium account for
metamath in this case we passing the
control detail so the ID I and the
address and we said state because we're
using react but here is where the magic
happens
so after we added everything to ITSs and
we got the multi hash back we can send
the hash to the contract itself and if
everything works fine we can just store
the transaction hash from the etherion
effort and also the idea that hash and
again this is why a lot of ideas because
like this four lines of code this is
stored stores almost forever so so how
we do like loading an existing file
again we prompt the user for the master
password we get the ITSs cash from the
contract itself on the third line we've
been get hat and we do get cash fall
then we use the files API which is
actually abstracted with the get IPSS
method method to get the file itself
converted to a buffer again we create a
keeper with cryptic Oh and we just
decrypt what IPSS gave us back and if we
jason parse disk we are
she got the batteries from the beginning
of Babu's life so again a couple of
lines of code and you get public/private
key encryption you get IDF s essentially
storing and you called you got the multi
a hash also from a decentralized storage
Eugene cerium which is good so if we
just wanted to adjust for fun if we
wanted to actually see how we can make
this maybe even better or cool or
whatever we can use one contract for all
user which is basically you using a map
to map an address and a theorem address
to an idea that's multi hash or I DNS
cache also work we can use icns hosting
which on a workshop that i did we
actually did that so we had this serial
for storing the multi hash then we had
ipfs for storing the encrypted payload
and we also had IP and i suppose the
whole thing as a tab so the whole thing
was totally decentralized and
indestructible indestructible and then
we can also use events at storage on the
etherium network so we can just replay
events and in that way store information
but idss is much more usable so to
actually showcase how this with tenderly
so you remembered that I submitted the
transaction we can see it was let's see
five minutes ago and it succeeded but
now if they go back here
choose a different account which is the
klog one we can see in the password in
the password contract that we have this
required which says message sender must
be password owner and password owner was
the person is actually deployed the
contract so if they go back here and
using the different accounts which is
secured in metamath I can try actually
rewriting the account I just made so
this is their own password so if let's
say a big master password file enter a
different metric that's true because I
want to change into malicious stuff I'm
gonna get to eat mat the mat box give me
a sec
yeah I need to refresh this sorry okay
okay okay there we cut the pop-up we can
confirm the transaction which is going
to happen in either scan now if we go
here give it a couple seconds to fail
actually
from - warning airing cart encounter
during the election penetrant
contribution reverted and again if we go
to the parrot race or whatever we if we
have a complex country we cannot see it
and we're gonna see how we can use
tenderly to address to debug this so
just for brevity's sake i have verified
this contract on the inter stand so we
can see the code you saw in remix here
so i'm gonna copy the address to the
contract and you're gonna go to tenderly
and login i'm going to create a new
project she's going to be ipfs called
for example
now there are two ways to actually add
the contract to us so if you pick the
CLIA method this is actually going to
either upload to our Google cloud or to
idss this is where we actually use idea
fest and we also have very excited
contracts so I'm going to pick here call
button which is going to use the
interest and one I'm going to say AB
contract and here in the background
we're checking if the contract is valid
we're also going to pull the contract
itself from either scan we're going to
compile the contract and now we suspect
everything we will actually see the
transaction to failed a minute ago but
instead of just seeing this which is
unusable to actually debug something if
I go here we're actually going to see
the exact lines of code where it broke
and this wasn't possible until Thunder
really was built so this is what we
built and this is more or less my key
demo and what I wanted to share here so
I'm open for question awesome thank you
very much
so if you could stop sharing your screen
I'll sure give me a sec good very gosta
okay awesome
thank you presentation um do you have it
if you have any questions please put it
in the chat so all questions please put
in chat I have a question
can you can you tell us like what is
your wish list in terms of ipfs features
like what features would you like to see
in the future so I remember when I was
doing stuff with idns it's kind of for
people that are just getting into ITSs
it can be quite complex especially when
you want to map map it to T name because
you can map the night DNS cache to a
cname and then like use regular domains
to actually redirect to adapt that's
hoped in the night PMS
so that was one of the things which is
which isn't lacking
it was just hard to kind of figure it
out for the first time when we use it so
I think that was the first thing and I
don't know I really love before you guys
did like the WebSocket thing where stuff
is published on the network and
something is added instead they're just
like traversing the back I wouldn't say
to have a sub-sub feature but now you
have it so then I'm good
so we're using it and we're really happy
with it so I just want to take aways
that's having like a clearer
documentation for developers and grub
yeah for more advanced stuff so
definitely the files API is so rich and
you can do so much cool stuff with it
and then you have abstractions like get
and add and stuff like that
but then if you like go to the files API
after that the complexity goes much
higher like their learning curve goes is
much deeper from that point on so I
remember I read a couple of articles a
medium that really helped me out but
maybe on an official dog that would be
one of the stuff that this could help
what I can
is that we do have protocol and protocol
is current protocol is a list of like
activities so individuals are able to
learn more about
ipfs evening API and how it works and if
I'm not mistaken their next lesson is on
like dealing with files and handling the
files so if you can even take a look at
that and like give us some feedback we
would love it um the person who created
protocol is actually on this call and
that is to Terry so if you'd like to get
contact with her in the future and like
I said before we I can like send you the
new lessons and we would love your
feedback I actually saw a solid EFS call
it was like a month back or something
like that's about protocol correct right
I believe yeah we launched in January so
the one that I'm working on right now is
specifically about I'm a fast the
mutable file system version of dealing
with files and then at a later point we
would be adding something about the non
Emma fast version of dealing with files
but we're waiting for it to support
blobs in the browser with that version
before we built that content so there is
an open PR right now if you're
interested in looking at the work that's
in progress
if you can send it to me and portion can
you can send you my email and I would
definitely love to look at it and get
feedback so okay great yeah thank you
are there any other questions
we have compliments
we have rad demo bogman thanks for
sharing Hart part your approach to
developer workflow and debugging
thanks for the walkthrough I have
another question have you worked with
major ideas like for instance visual
Visual Studio or sublime because this
would be something that would be great
to work with like while and like that
text editor so we actually have the
thing that I showed you like a dashboard
you can run it as a CLI itself and we
are going to work so after we're
finished with the learning for the
platform itself
looking into actually integrating with
stuff like Visual Studio code definitely
because of the language server stuff
like that and also to see like with the
whole jetbrains suite of tools because a
lot of people use that as well and maybe
stuff like Assam and stuff like that so
what developers you
but right now it's a CLI because it was
the easiest to prove the value that
we're bringing in to work with what most
people use so that was kind of the
reasoning behind it of course of course
um excellent so we don't have any other
questions or comments
we'll end now but once again often thank
you very much for the demo thank you
very much for the presentation we really
appreciate it
hey and I will see and I will see
everyone next Monday for the next ipfs
weekly call enjoy Earth Day and I'll see
you next week take care everyone
nice meeting you guys bye I nicely can
you do